can you believe this state of the
economy I'm going to show you how much
debt people are in right now I'm going
to look at what has happened over the
last while to bring us to this point I
mean we have seen it go from bad to
worse but why is that happening I'm
going to show you that as well as what
you can personally do let's begin let's
talk about the economy first you could
see the average North Carolinian with
credit card debt is carrying nearly a
seven thousand dollar balance that
interest rates I haven't been there
since nearly 30 years ago when you see
this I've been quoting six thousand
dollars in fact it's worse than I have
been telling you all along this is the
average debt and imagine you're looking
at the average annual percentage rate of
it would show you that there is no way
that people are going to pay this off
seven thousand dollars with 24 interest
is quite significant for anybody to be
paying back back and then you have a
trillion dollars of that of course this
is a dramatic effect on people at the
same time you had the student debt
you're at the high level of mortgage
costs today that is just going to be
added onto the backs of everyone new
factories are coming to the U.S even as
existing ones struggle so new Factory
construction is up but let me show you
the actual details of the PMI so like
the measurement of what's going on and
that is 10 months of decline in
manufacturing activity so the actual
manufacturing taking place has declined
and here's the charge to correspond to
that this is the U.S manufacturing PMI
in a contraction at this time and then
you have the U.S Services PMI which is
just above contraction but is actually
moving down towards that contraction
territory and so we see this pulling up
in the data this is just another chart
form showing us that
okay so we do see contraction
everywhere you turn and it's not just in
the United States okay this is just
showing us China and you could see it on
all of these different levels where it's
not necessarily the worst it's ever been
but it's very weak that is GDP exports
can the CPI youth unemployment which
some say is as high as 50 but that's
based on some estimates and then you
have the currency in China of course
weakening against the US dollar and new
loans although the new loans have turned
around I believe since the most recent
data it just shows you that it's
everywhere and that connects in with
German producer prices fall at the
fastest Pace since 2009 not the good
thing right we don't want those producer
prices to be too high because then that
adds to inflation and on the CPI the
consumer prices but there's some other
things in here suggesting that you know
there are deeper problems there are
other issues that are going on inside of
Germany as well as out about 40 percent
of German producer prices are now lower
than the elevated levels reached last
year good stuff of course and we will
see what happens with that but if it
gets too low well then you have a
problem because then they're not making
what they used to they start laying
people off this is a sign of a weakening
economy potentially we just don't want
to see it get too far we'll see
inflation speaking of getting too far
I want to talk about that South Korea
the inflation story is not over we can
get the latest data as it comes through
but after declining for so many months
it started to research so we can
hopefully we'll not have to deal with
that in every other country now it's
just a one-off for South Korea and
that's it but a Resurgence in inflation
would absolutely Crush people and we're
hoping that does not occur all right
well price Resurgence has further to run
after the Saudis turn the screw and from
my understanding this isn't the end of
all of that it actually takes time
there's a lag and so we could be feeling
more of that at the same time uh Russia
has cut oil production as well so we're
gonna see if those prices do escalate to
the point at which would be an impact on
the economy all right as I record this
video the price of crude oil for the WTI
is at 87 a barrel this is quite High
compared to what we've seen
but of course nobody really knows uh
where it's going to stop some say a
hundred and fifty dollars a barrel in
you know for for so many different
reasons and we will see how that goes
natural gas of course another issue a
long-standing issue between Russia and
Europe I wonder how that's going to
unfold uh throughout this while I want
you to know that a hundred and fifty
dollars a barrel oil is something that
has happened briefly before but it just
shows us uh that this would of course of
course Crush economies there's certainly
no question about that the economy is
weak by so many different standards and
it's a global issue for most countries
all right so you got to look at the
companies that are at most risk right
now
um there's changes that are going
through and we'll talk about that in a
second here but keep an eye out as you
look at the global economy split and
they do this split into different ways
but 156 trillion dollars in U.S assets
and this is just showing us the Baby
Boomers and the Generation X and so on
and you can see where the breakdown of
that wealth is a lot of it of course
being in real estate and so that just
gives you a perspective of the economy
because we talk about economy all the
time but it's important to know where
that money is and where that wealth is
and for a lot of people it's in real
estate it's in their personal residence
by far so any impact on real estate
prices
therefore affects the economy as a whole
so right now real estate price is
extremely high and we see that of course
in many countries any change to those
prices would of course affect their
wealth their well-being and so on
consumer sentiment right
this is a big change now this is talking
about Amazon versus FTC this one
scenario could scare investors I've
talked about this before the regulations
on these type of different companies
in the tech industry
but others as well the FTC is reportedly
prepared to file a massive Anti-Trust
lawsuit against Amazon potentially
leading to the breakup of the
conglomerate okay and so that's very
important this is a very I would call it
an unregulated type of environment with
tech companies and so any type of
Regulation will have a material impact
on their bottom line
so when I look at this I think
immediately that people should wake up
to the reality of it and just in a
circumstance here this if you're an
Amazon investor you're thinking of
getting your seven shares of Amazon
you've got to be careful that's all I am
saying I found this uh because of the
alerts that I get with Seeking Alpha
it's very easy to use website that I
have that I've promoted before
and when you are signed up to them
anything to do with the companies that
are part of your portfolio you have the
option to basically get those emails
that come through I got this one I
thought it was really important
especially how we look at the relevance
to today's circumstances if you want
Seeking Alpha you want to check it out
the free trial and the 50 off I put a
link in the description definitely check
it out at least get the free trial play
around with it Link in the description
we have this apple first became the
world's most valuable company in 2011
and has for the most part held on to the
title ever since but analysts say that
change could uh it could change soon and
who's going to overtake them Ah that's
right alphabet as in Google and
Microsoft but why why is that the case
Ah that's right and Amazon as well why
because of AI all right AI we've heard
it all before we know this all before
again
unregulated any regulation that they're
pushing for right now uh is going to
slow down this advancement of AI but at
the same time of course apple is going
to do AI things they're all getting on
it they're all getting on this bandwagon
so watch that when you're putting your
money in to any one of these Investments
be careful with regulation be careful
who they're affiliated with okay because
if they're reliant on another company or
another type of energy source or
something that could have an impact on
that particular company okay so what can
you do about all of this what are you
gonna do let's talk about that really
quickly here countries holding valuable
resources are attractive at this time
that's what we want to have that's what
we want to be
uh you got to watch the exposure to
companies at risk so in that case there
we're talking about Amazon but there's a
lot if they're going to say we're going
to shut down coal do you want to own the
coal company or do you want to look
elsewhere it's up to you how you want to
play it
invest in real assets
to basically to weather any storm during
these times we have difficulties and
when you have real assets
you can take a beating for a little
while you can resolve this will result
in basically a stabilized environment
for you during those periods of
difficulty so hold real assets always
and forever if you want to get in touch
with me directly this is the place to do
it it's Discord Discord is like a chat
service where we can always communicate
between us and I find it very
interesting because I'm seeing what
other people are chatting about as well
you can join for free click that link in
the description and comment of the day
thank you David agreed that we need to
become self-sufficient and not reliant
on the government it's all coming thank
you very much Angie for your comment yes
we must be self-sufficient as
individuals of course as countries too
but as individuals we need to do what we
can become self-sufficient try to
increase our income these are the two
pillars of prosperity you can do it one
way a you feel comfortable or both these
are the things we need to take advantage
of right now while we can I hope you
appreciate this video I'll see you on
the next one take care